Improve XSLT translate description (#40540)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/xml/xpath/reference/functions/translate/index.md

## Description

For every character in `string`, if `abc` contains that character, it is replaced with the character at the same index in `XYZ`. If `abc` does not contain that character, it is kept as-is.

> - If `abc` is longer than `XYZ`, then every occurrence of characters in `abc` that do not have a corresponding character in `XYZ` will be removed.

Reviewer: I find this confusing. Do you mean?

```suggestion
- If `abc` is longer than `XYZ`, then `abc` is effectively truncated to match the length of `XYZ`.
```

Author: No what it's saying is that the extra characters in `abc` are removed from the input string, i.e., replaced with the empty string

Author: I could say:

```suggestion
- If `abc` is longer than `XYZ`, then the extra characters of `abc` are mapped to the empty string (i.e., removed).
```

Reviewer: Thanks.

```suggestion
- If `abc` is longer than `XYZ`, then the extra characters at the end of `abc` are mapped to the empty string (i.e., they are removed from the source string).
```

- If `XYZ` contains more characters than `abc`, the extra characters are ignored.
- If a character appears multiple times in `abc`, then the first occurrence determines the replacement character.

> Note that these cases should be avoided. `translate()` is not a regexp or string replacement function. It is a character-by-character substitution function.

Author: What I intended is this: if you use `translate` as a char-by-char replacement, then there's no reason you would have two ciphers of different lengths. If you run into any of these cases (perhaps except `abc` longer than `xyz` if you actually want to remove some characters), you are likely using it completely wrong, such as doing string or regex replacement, and here's an example of such an invalid use case.

> `translate()` is a character-by-character substitution function, not a regexp or string replacement function. The `abc` and `XYZ` strings represent _character ciphers_, not substrings. This means that if run into any of the cases above, you may be using the method incorrectly (except perhaps having a longer `abc` to remove certain characters).

Author: ```suggestion
`translate()` is a character-by-character substitution function, not a regexp or string replacement function. The `abc` and `XYZ` strings represent _character ciphers_, not substrings. This means that if you run into any of the cases above, you may be using the method incorrectly (except perhaps having a longer `abc` to remove certain characters).
```
